okay in this video I just want to
discuss the peptide bond a little bit
before we start drawing you know
tripeptides
tetra peptides etc so a peptide bond is
also known as an AB made bond it is a
covalent chemical bond formed between
two molecules when the carboxyl carboxyl
group of one molecule reacts with the
amino group of another molecule thereby
releasing water this is a hydration
synthesis also known as a condensation
reaction and usually occurs between
amino acids this is just a basic
definition I took from Wikipedia and to
go along with it I just wanted to show
the formation of an amide bond so a
little bit of organic chemistry here so
I'm just going to draw some stuff here
and then I'll show you what I'm thinking
about doing so first I'll just draw a
carboxylic acid and an amine group now
the thing we might remember from organic
chemistry is that this is Delta positive
and this is Delta negative and this has
a lone pair of electrons so what can
happen here is we can attack right here
and kick that up with an arrow up like
that and what we wind up with is a
pretty high energy tetrahedral
intermediate so I'm going to show that
negative charge on the oxygen up here
and then we have n the R group H and
another H and this is a positive charge
on it so I don't know if you can see it
too well but that's a positive charge
now the thing about this is that yes
this group is a much better leaving
group than do h but and it does happen
that that group does come on and leave
Sam mean group does come on and leave at
you know various signs but every once in
a while something else can happen and
what can basically happen here is that
this negative charge here we kick back
down and we can kick this off because
really this tetrahedral intermediate is
a very very high energy because of the
charges especially the negative charge
on the oxygen so what we wind up with
here and I'll go this way with it is
Reformation of the carbonyl groove and
this here plus o h minus and to really
finish this off though the last thing
that will happen is that this o h here
will take a proton from here kick back
on to there and we'll move over here
we'll just wind up with the Ameen
that's on charge now so that's basically
the general mechanism for how to form
this bond of a very basic one and now
that we kind of understand a little bit
about what's going on with the peptide
bond I have here a problem that says
draw of a problem here that says draw up
a tetrapeptide tyrosine as far and gene
leucine methionine at physiological pH
so you might recall that physiological
pH is equal to seven point four so again
this is where it might help you to have
the chart in front of you to show you
what's going on and see what charge and
what's not charged and the next thing to
do here is just start drawing out the
peptide so we have the amine group here
again just the backbone and this is the
alpha carbon so I'll draw my tyrosine
ch2 and if we recall from the last video
or maybe not that tyrosine sidechain has
a pKa of 10.5 so since this pH is equal
to seven point four it's going to be
protonated now we'll get the carbonyl
group here and that's where the amid
bond or peptide bond is formed NH so we
draw the next side chain which is
sparging ch2 C double bond o NH two
there's that side chain now again same
thing
form another at mid bond here and we'll
draw a leucine which is CH 2 CH ch3 ch3
so there's leucine and now again we'll
draw this same H and the last one so
thigh a name which is CH 2 CH 2 s CH 3
and on the end here we'll have a carbon
double bond o o - so that's your
tetrapeptide right there nothing really
spectacular just recognizing that this
is your peptide bond and that the
backbones are all in place and another
thing to recognize is that goes from the
end terminus to the C terminus and
that's about all I wanted to say for
this video